---
title: "Theo seeks aspiring programmer"
date: 2006-04-12 04:26:15
type: post
categories:
- Damaged Bits
tags:
- programming
- career
---

<p>At no point in the history of <a href="https://www.omniticc.com/">OmniTI</a> has it &quot;shrunk&quot; in size.  It's a beast now and it continues to grow in fantastic ways.  As such, we're are hiring.</p> <p>I'm looking for a junior developer.  However, I'm looking for a <a href="https://www.omniticc.com/About/career_profile.html?careerid=14">good junior developer</a>.  I've been so frustrated in the past with the various definitions of junior and mid-level and senior.  Constantly I see an entry-level programmer come in with delusions of being an enterprise architect or a senior-level web application program because they made their own website.</p> <p>At OmniTI we build big things.  We regularly deal with multi-terabyte databases, sites with tens of millions of users, and distributed systems that service hundreds of thousands of transactions per second.  We use a variety of technologies (mostly focused on open source).  So, when someone says that they are senior, I expect them to be able to code excellently in 2-3 languages, passably in 2-3 more and learn a new language passably inside a week if needed.  I expect them to be able to merge changesets between branches and resolve complicated conflicts with the same effort they put into breathing.  I expect them to be able to have a client screaming on the phone while they are troubleshooting a critical issue without moistening their chair.</p> <p>Luckily, I'm not actively in the market for a senior programmer right now.  However, if you are a ambitious programmer that takes considerable pride in the quality of their work, are interested in a challenging work environment where you get to play with big toys, and want the opportunity to work with and be mentored by <a href="https://www.omniticc.com/About/people.html">colleagues</a> that have been presenting and teaching at conferences for the past 10 years (and happen to hold 16 time slots at <a href="https://conferences.oreillynet.com/os2006/">this year's OSCON</a>) then we have an opening for you.</p> <p align="left">And to give this posting a true Theo feel, here are the rules of engagement:</p> <ol>     <li>If you have never used a VCS (version control system) or SCM (source code management), I'll beat you with a stick;</li>     <li>If I hear the word &quot;framework,&quot; I'll beat you with a stick;</li>     <li>If you use the word &quot;scalable&quot; when you should have used &quot;high performance,&quot; I'll beat you with a stick (hint: avoid the word scalable);</li>     <li>If you don't know what TCP port HTTP uses by default, I'll beat you with a stick;</li>     <li>If you don't have a sense of humor, I'll beat you with a stick (but only I will think it's funny);</li>     <li>The stupid need not apply;</li>     <li>I'm actually a really nice guy.</li> </ol> 
